[MUSIC PLAYING]
Hi, I'm Lisa Garr, host
of Gaiam Inspirations,
and I'm coming to you live from
our Los Angeles Gaiam studio.
And thank you so
much for joining us.
So did you know that more than
2/3 of Americans are on a diet
right now.
This could be you
watching right now.
Are you on a diet?
Do you lose weight and they
gain back more than you lost?
Well, with a staggering
$60 billion a year
spent on weight loss, why do
2/3 of people who go on a diet,
fail?
My guests today are the
documentary filmmakers
of a film called
"Hungry for Change,"
James Colquhoun and
Laurentine ten Bosch.
And they're here to
help us understand
why unhealthy, fattening
foods make us crave them more.
Welcome to the show.
Thank you for being here.
JAMES COLQUHOUN:
Thank you, Lisa.
LAURENTINE TEN
BOSCH: Thank so much.
I'm so excited to be here.
I'm so glad to have you
here because your information
in your film is so clear.
It's so groundbreaking.
And people need
to understand why
is it that we crave these
foods that taste so darn good.
I know.
It's such an interesting
question for us.
And when we started doing
research for the film,
we really came up against
two really interesting
pieces of information.
And like you mentioned, 2/3
of people who go on a diet
actually fail and regain more
weight than when they started.
That is so interesting that
there are so many people
struggling to stay
on a diet or to have
success with it long term.
So really, as filmmakers
and researchers,
we wanted to get to
the bottom of that.
And what was interesting
about these types of diets,
and particularly diets based
on calorie restriction,
or diets based on
manipulating the ratios of fat
to protein to carbohydrates--
LISA GARR: All which I've done.
And what happens when we
go on diets like that is it
can cause us to lose
weight for the short term.
But often it puts us
in this diet mentality
that we talk about in the film.
Lisa, how often do
you go like, this
is something I
know I can't have,
but I really want it right now.
Whereas, before that, you
never really wanted that.
So it really puts you into
that mental neurosis of--
-It does.
-I can't have this.
And then after
you stop the diet,
you're so excited to
eat all those foods
that you weren't able to eat.
So you're really
eating unconsciously.
I was just going to say, it's
unconscious eating for me,
because the diet puts
you in that place
of lack and starvation.
I'm sure the body
holds onto the fat.
Jon Gabriel, one of the people
we interviewed for the 'Hungry
for Change" film, was able to
lose over 200 pounds in a seven
year period and keep it off.
But the secret to
success was being
able to shift his approach.
And we'll talk about
that more as we
get through this interview.
But what he found--
he had the same
struggles that many people do.
He would lose 10
pounds, then gain 20.
Lose 10 pounds, gain 20.
And he tried every diet.
He worked face to
face with Atkins.
He was working at
the Pritikin Center.
I mean, he did it all.
And what he discovered,
which is some of the research
that we show in the film, is
that his research is showing
that diets make you fat.
Because what actually
happens is you're going
into this starvation mode.
And thousands of years ago
when we lived outdoors,
and we were running from bears
and surviving from winter
through summer and
different seasons,
our body is biologically
adapted to store
fat when we're under stress.
And this is a really
interesting point here.
So stress in our modern day
environment is prolific.
Getting to work on time,
paying off your credit cards,
and stress in the
forms of toxicity
from the environment and foods.
So these stresses on
our body are actually
causing us to gain weight.
So do diets cause
your body stress?
JAMES COLQUHOUN:
They do because it's
putting your body in a
state of-- it's shaking
your body's metabolism up.
You go from eating
one particular way,
and then you change
it completely.
And it changes your whole
body's biochemistry,
and when you do that,
your body has to adjust.
And then the problem is
that most of these diets
are not designed for a
long-term, lifestyle approach.
So people go on
them and off them.
On them and off them.
Getting ready for the
summer bikini season or--
LISA GARR: Three
days, five days.
Exactly.
And what happens
is the body goes
into these shock-type modes.
And that's a stress on the body.
So the approach we'll
talk about later
is such a radical approach.
It's different to anything
that's been out there.
I have so many
questions for you.
But I want to find out, how
did you get started in this?
And what caused you
to make a documentary
and be so passionate
about this topic?
Well, for Laurentine and I, it
was really quite interesting.
Five years ago we had no
idea how to make a film.
We were studying
nutrition, and we
knew that we really
wanted to help
get this information out there.
And what happened for
us was we had a catalyst
within my own family.
My father was ill,
and he was suffering
from chronic fatigue syndrome,
depression, and anxiety.
And really, it's
burnout, middle-age,
professional syndrome.
And we're seeing a
lot of it these days.
LISA GARR: Oh, yes, yes.
LAURENTINE TEN BOSCH: And we
would often send him books.
And we would send him
advice because we'd
been learning about nutrition.
And we knew that there were
things that he could do
for chronic fatigue, naturally.
Really?
Yeah, and we would
send this to him.
And he wouldn't read it.
He wouldn't read the books.
I mean, he was bedridden.
He was five years bedridden.
LISA GARR: How old was he?
There was no way
he was going to read
through a whole bunch
of pages to figure
out what he could do about it.
LISA GARR: We actually
have a picture of him.
Of a before and after--
after you got to him.
So is there information
on-- I mean, how do you heal
chronic fatigue nutritionally?
Well, what was interesting is
as we were studying nutrition,
we found that there
was actually--
there are single approaches
to different illnesses of
different problems in the body.
But generally
speaking, as you start
studying natural
medicine, you realize
that it's more of a holistic
approach that can help to treat
and reverse the symptomatology
of many different types
of illnesses.
So in my father's case,
he was in his mid 50s.
He'd spent five years bedridden.
He had to sell his business.
My mother became the
primary caregiver,
so it really shook
our whole family.
And it was--
But then on top of that,
he was also on a concoction
of different types
of medications
from pharmaceuticals and
Valium, and all sorts of--
You're explaining
most of Americans.
Antidepressants.
Yeah, yeah.
And the biggest problem for him
was that he had put his trust
and abdicated his
responsibility for his health
to the medical profession.
And he really trusted that they
would have the answers for him.
But what this led
us to discover was
that-- In our first
film, "Food Matters,"
we talked a lot
about the economics
behind the pharmaceutical
industry and the food industry,
and how they're
conspiring, not altogether
for our ultimate health.
But more so, for a quick
fix, instant gratification,
symptomatology-based approach.
And that was not
helping my father.
And for many people
out there that
are suffering from similar
issues, which we talk
about in that first film
of ours-- depression,
anxiety, diabetes, weight gain,
cancer, even heart disease.
There are so many
approaches that we
can do naturally
that really help
address the underlying causes.
LISA GARR: --and permanently.
So we knew we had
to take charge.
We couldn't just see this
happening in front of us
and not do anything about it.
So we flew over, and we
sat down with James's dad.
And we said, look,
this is amazing footage
that we've collected from
these teachers of ours.
And what we're going
to do with you is we're
going to put you
on a detox diet.
And we're going to
get you off the meds,
and we're going to put
you on to supplements
that are going to help your
body regain its vitality.
We would tape his cabinet,
his pantry, and we'd be like,
these are the foods
you're not allowed to eat.
-The contraband.
-Yeah, the contraband.
LISA GARR: Nice.
That's great.
We eliminated dairy and
meet for a short time,
and then we got him on juicing.
He was doing green juices,
and he was having sprouts
and lemon juice for breakfast.
And he started to like it.
LISA GARR: Clean, clean food.
His body started
to-- his chemistry,
his body chemistry started
to change internally.
Any he started craving
more of those foods.
When you start to introduce
those foods to the body,
the body doesn't have to
work as hard to digest them.
And you have a lot
more energy free to be
able to do the things that
you want to do in your life.
And it's a transition.
Once you start it, you
crave the clean foods
because you realize how much
energy you've been expending
on clearing the detoxification
and digesting the heavy fats
and the toxins within the food.
It takes it.
It consumes our energy.
With this particular
hands-on approach
that we had with my
father and showing him
a lot of the entities we shot
for the "Food Matters" film,
within a few months--
after five years
of this condition--
within a few months
he was off his medications.
He was starting to
lose weight, and he
was really brightening up.
He felt better than he ever had.
And now, throughout
this process,
it's been about five years
since we went and helped him.
He's lost 50 pounds.
He's kept it off.
He's running three times a week.
He fits into your jeans.
We share clothes now.
LISA GARR: What?
Yeah, totally.
LISA GARR: We have
a picture of him
I wanted to show the audience,
because this is the before
and after.
He looks very happy.
JAMES COLQUHOUN: He is.
There's the before photo with
his cat, his favorite cat
there.
And the after-- look,
he's just so fit and thin.
He sees his real self again.
And what was so inspiring about
that journey for Laurentine
and I is we knew there
were so many people
in a similar situation.
And we wanted to find the most
effective way we could reach
more people with this message.
And film became
the ideal medium.
So that was "Food Matters." a
And how that led to
the more recent film,
"Hungry for Change," that
we're talking about today,
-- was through my
dad's transformation.
A lot of people, when
they would speak to him,
the first thing they would say
was not, hey, congratulations,
you're off your medication.
You've beat--
LISA GARR: How did you do that?
-It was how did you--
You look amazing.
And you look amazing.
And you've lost weight.
-You lost so much weight.
What did you do?
What was your secret?
Yes.
They wanted to know.
Yes, and whenever I see anyone
who's transformed their body,
that the first thing I say.
How did you do that?
What did you do?
You want to know.
Exactly, and that
really inspired
us to do some research into the
diet and weight loss industry.
Because, as you mentioned
in the introduction here,
there's so much money
being spent in this space.
And there's so much
ineffective approaches
that are being promoted by
companies and individuals
and organizations
throughout America
and most of the western
developed world.
And we want to set
the record straight.
So why do you think
that-- What is the myth?
What is the big myth
that we're not seeing,
that we're not getting here?
Why is $60 billion a year spent
on something that doesn't work?
I think probably what is
the biggest myth for us--
Yeah, what were
you going to say?
I was going to say
is that people think
a diet is going to save them.
But it's more an approach
to nourishing the body
and really shifting away
from the diet mentality.
That's moving outside of
that whole sphere into else.
What were you going to say?
I also think it's not
fair to put it on people
because the amount of marketing
and the advertising that
steers people towards
the diet products
and the fat-free products.
That's really what-- as
part of making the film,
we interviewed people outside
of the leading supermarkets,
and we would ask them if they
believed they were shopping
healthy for their family.
And most parents would say,
yes, I'm shopping healthy.
And they would happily
show us their cart.
And yes, you would
see the diet products.
And you would see the margarine
and the fat-free products.
But they were doing
that thinking they
were doing the right thing.
And then when we spoke
to the leading doctors
and nutritionists from around
the world-- who we asked
what would you
suggest in regards
to losing weight and vitality.
What would be the
best thing to do,
and what the worst
thing would be to do.
And they said, steer
clear of the diet product,
steer clear of the
fat-free products,
steer clear of the margarine
and the chemicalized products.
The 100 calories, yes.
What we were really seeing
is-- we were seeing this mix-up.
It's like people don't
realize that this
is where they should be at.
Whereas they're
trying all this stuff.
LISA GARR: This is only-- this
is one of the biggest points
that I want to get through
to the listeners today
is to really get from
what you're saying,
that these products
that are marketed
to us-- about the sugar-free,
fat-free, 100-calorie,
are the worst products
for your body.
They set up addictions
in the body.
We're going to learn
all about this.
JAMES COLQUHOUN: And I think
what Laurentine is saying
is there's really a disconnect
between the research
that some of the great experts
we've got featured in "Hungry
for Change" are telling us about
nutrition in the diet industry.
And what we're seeing in
mainstream media, in magazines
and newspapers, in
chemists and pharmacies,
and the quick diet
fixes-- there's
this disconnect between what
is actually really healthy,
and what we're
being promoted to.
And to help clear that
up for people, for us
consumers-- people are
out there every day
making purchase decisions.
We want to make sure
that their money
is being invested
wisely in their health
and not being wasted.
LISA GARR: We have
a clip of the movie,
and I want to show
it to the viewers
because it's something that's
going to really sum up a lot
of what we're talking about.
And we're going to go
into it in more detail.
Let's take a look at this clip.
This is "Hungry for Change."
[CHIMES]
Dear diary, today
I feel very sad,
and I want to eat everything.
The problem is that we are
not eating food anymore.
We are eating food
like products.
And they are adorned.
They are made to look
better and smell better
so that people are
attracted to them.
It's not your fault.
You're programed
to put on fat whenever
there is food available.
But now there's a lot
of food available,
but it's the wrong kind.
Sugar is in everything.
In America, we're eating about
22 teaspoons of sugar a day.
Even the milk hasn't escaped.
So let me just show you.
One kid, just the five years
of elementary school sugar,
just in milk.
You might as well be
rolling up the kid's sleeve
and putting in heroin.
Because it's the same.
The marketing essentially lies
to you because it presents you
with the promise,
you're going to be
sexy and popular and cool.
But in reality, you're going
to be obese, and miserable,
and sick.
Nothing else does it in your
brain quite like a diet cola.
And that's because there's
a deadly combination there
of aspartame and caffeine.
I think most people
believe the FDA actually
has their own scientists
to do this analysis.
But nothing can be
further from the truth.
If I was in the food industry,
what am I looking to do?
I want to sell you more food.
They're into just
selling a market.
You can lose weight
on a diet, but it's
a little bit like borrowing
from Peter to pay Paul.
I mean, you can get 10
pounds off your body
through sheer force,
but you're going to have
to pay back with interest.
People know this, so why are
highly intelligent people not
stopping?
Because they don't know
the nature of the track.
The whole dieting
paradigm is flawed.
I was 31 when I
realized I don't know
how to take care of myself.
And I am sick.
So I had to go back and
learn all the things that I
wish I had known as a child.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I've tried everything.
I did witch doctors,
I did mud baths,
acupuncture, I did the lot.
The one thing which I was
really afraid to face up to
was changing what I
put into my mouth.
I never heard of a
raw food restaurant.
Raw food-- how do
you cook raw food?
I thought vegan was a planet.
I was over 400 pounds, and
I had very bad sleep apnea.
I was borderline
type 2 diabetic.
Cleansing and
detoxification can
make you lose weight,
will make your eyes white,
will make your skin glow.
If somebody's got
beautiful skin,
it invites us to a deeper
understanding of what's
going on inside their body.
What we're talking about
is a real diet in the sense
of what a species needs.
When we get onto our real
diet, we don't have to think
about these things anymore.
What do you think the
body's going to do?
It's not going to
reject this at all.
It's going to look and
say, now I'm on board.
Now you're good to me,
let me shine for you.
So let's talk about this.
How much sugar do
Americans consume?
Well, we're consuming more
sugar in America, Australia,
United Kingdom, most of
the Western developing
world, more than we
ever had in the history
of sugar consumption.
And as Kris Carr just
mentioned in the trailer there,
we're consuming up to 22
teaspoons of sugar a day.
So it's like taking
22 packs of sugar,
laying it out, and
just eating that.
JAMES COLQUHOUN:
--gobbling them up.
Now sugar is coming in a
lot of different forms.
You'll see most of
the processed foods
have sugar in the ingredients.
And also, we're consuming
sugar in foods and in beverages
and drinks, like in sodas.
So the amount of sugar
that we're consuming
is coming from so many
different sources now as opposed
to just simple fruit
sugars, or vegetable sugars,
or sugars that we would
get originally, or honey.
LISA GARR: So those sugars
are OK, the fruit sugars,
the honey sugars.
What does the other
sugar do to you?
JAMES COLQUHOUN: I think
that what we're talking about
is the--
LAURENTINE TEN BOSCH:
-refined sugars.
JAMES COLQUHOUN: The refined
sugars are the main issue here.
And some of the
experts in the film
go to show that sugar
is highly addictive,
and it is a drug-like substance.
And the way that sugar
impacts your body
to cause these addictions
is really powerful,
and you see it.
You see so many people
that have to keep
on that sugar bandwagon.
And what it does to your
hormones, and to your insulin,
and to weight gain
is so important.
That's one of the key
aspects we need to really
understand in our diet.
LAURENTINE TEN BOSCH:
And a lot of people
say that they can't get
off the sugar train.
It is really a biochemistry
type of experiment.
LISA GARR: Addiction.
LAURENTINE TEN BOSCH: --and
what's happening in the body.
Because our body has
this type of PH levels
that-- our bodies really
shouldn't be at that high.
And if we continuously
crave these sugar foods,
and we put them in our
body, we keep fueling that.
So really, it's from
a biochemistry level.
And I think you
said in the film,
it's not the fat
that makes you fat.
It's the sugar--
JAMES COLQUHOUN: --sugar
that makes you fat.
So it's the avocado.
And those are all good fats, but
it's the sugar that converts.
JAMES COLQUHOUN:
And I think what's
really interesting
is that we have
gone on this whole war against
fat in the modern world.
It has to be fat-free.
We have to be on fat-free
diets or low-fat products.
The problem is that fat is
really important for metabolism
in the right type
of fat, and we need
good fats in order to be thin
or lose weight and stay healthy.
LAURENTINE TEN BOSCH:
--and have good skin.
Exactly.
But the sugar is really
the main culprit.
And Dr. Christiane Northrup
goes to show, as you said,
it's not fat that makes you fat.
It's sugar that makes you fat.
And really, our
relationship with sugar
is pretty toxic at the moment.
We're consuming
more than we ever
have, especially teenage kids.
That's why we're seeing
so much teenage diagnosis
with adult onset obesity--
diabetes and obesity in kids.
It's sad.
What about the
alternatives to sugar?
Those little pink packages,
those little blue packages--
These are the ones we should
really be avoiding as well.
It's filled with
chemicals, really.
A lot of people, when they're
looking to go on a diet,
reduce their sugar consumption,
then shop sugar-free.
And talking about
this disconnect
before was that there's a
disconnection between what we
think is healthy and what the
experts in "Hungry for Change"
show is healthy.
This is another one
of these conundrums.
People are shopping sugar-free,
but in sugar-free products
are artificial sweeteners.
And these particular types of
sweeteners, such as aspartame,
can be very toxic for the body.
And if consumed
in large amounts,
can cause horrible
hormonal chaos
and even lead to
more weight gain.
More weight gain.
So what exactly is
aspartame, anyway?
Is it a man-made
chemical substitute?
What is it?
JAMES COLQUHOUN: Aspartame is
a chemical that's made by man,
and it's specifically for-- it's
a low-calorie, sweet chemical.
But the problem with this
chemical, the most interesting
about it is-- it is correct, it
is low-calorie, and it's sweet.
So it's the perfect additive
from the food-industry
perspective.
But the problem is that
aspartame has zero nutrients.
So when your body
consumes aspartame,
it tastes the sweet flavor,
and your body thinks
that you're getting nutrients.
But there's no nutrients
actually delivered,
so this is the main problem.
It's that apart from its
toxic neurological effects--
from a biochemical standpoint--
when you consume this additive,
and your body thinks
you're getting nutrients--
and you aren't-- you actually
start craving more products,
even carbohydrates.
One of the hidden
things is chewing gum.
Aspartame is in chewing gum.
And little kids love
chewing gum, even
if it's sugar-free chewing gum.
It's going right into--
I have so many of my
friends that are addicted
to these sugar-free gums.
And a lot of the
times they have-- it
is associated with headaches
and painful migraines,
and sometimes can't
come into work
because of these migraines.
And then they don't
realize that it could be
because of these chewing gums.
And they constantly have it.
They're constantly having
one after the other.
LISA GARR: Yes,
and two at a time.
Yes, absolutely.
And it's not just
the chewing gums.
It could be in so
many other things
like cough drops and
medications for kids, as well.
Oh my goodness.
There's a whole great
clip from the movie
that I want to show
the viewers here.
This is a clip about aspartame,
specifically from the movie,
"Hungry for Change."
Take a look.
If I was in the food industry,
what am I looking to do?
I want to sell you more food.
That's what I want to do.
Now how can I do that?
I can manipulate the chemical
structure of their food
so that it now becomes
not fulfilling, but empty.
But gives the impression when
they very first ingest it,
that it is the most fulfilling
thing they've ever had.
Nothing else does it in your
brain quite like a diet cola,
and that's because there's
a deadly combination there
of aspartame and caffeine.
And those two together
create a very unique blend
of excitotoxin that
kills off brain cells.
But before they die,
they have this excitement
that's like a buzz.
So what you find with
the diet cola addicts
is that they'll drink sometimes
a liter, two liters a day.
And particularly
women do it as a way
to keep their weight down.
They don't eat.
They just have the next
buzz of diet colas.
Aspartame causes formaldehyde
buildup in the brain.
It causes frontal
lobe inflammation.
Migraines can be a common one.
Visual disturbances.
Symptoms that mimic
multiple sclerosis.
There's headaches, there's
neurological problems.
Seizures in more serious cases.
Cognitive problems,
and can, in fact, lead
to different types of cancers.
Actually, most pilots
are aware that they
can't drink diet sodas.
Because it's well recognized
within the pilot association
that you just don't drink this
because it can really cause
severe aberrations
in your vision
that will potentially lead
to problems with your flying.
That is very, very alarming,
but important information.
So why do these foods
make you crave them more?
We started off
talking about this.
We did.
And to draw on some research
leading into this, one
of the pieces-- one of the
quotes we show in the film
is that Yale University--
this is Yale--
show that people who consume
artificial sweeteners actually
lead to weight gain and
carbohydrate cravings.
So that seems so strange because
we're taught in mainstream
media that the consumption
of artificial sweeteners
is low-calorie.
It's good for if
you're on a diet,
so you stick with the sugar-free
gum, the sugar-free sodas.
But in fact, it's
leading to weight gain.
This is the news.
This is what we wanted to
get to the bottom of it.
Because really, if you're
finding that people that
are trying to lose
weight are then
regaining more weight
because they're more
addicted to these substances.
That was, for us,
that was crazy.
That's very important.
So it's the sugar-free
food that we are craving
more that are making us fatter.
JAMES COLQUHOUN:
It's unbelievable.
It's like something out of a
sci-fi movie, really, isn't it?
LISA GARR: It's
important to know.
So that's what's so
important about the film.
When people are
going on a diet, you
have to be really careful
about what foods you choose.
And it's not about going
and following the mainstream
approach of I'm going to
go sugar-free, fat-free,
because that is not working.
So going back to why aspartame
causes this weight gain-- which
we started on just before the
clip-- was this concept of how
when you can chew
aspartame, it sends
this signal to
your brain saying,
hey, I've had something sweet.
But what actually happens
biochemically in your body
is that you're not
getting any nutrients
from that particular sweet.
LAURENTINE TEN BOSCH:
So you get more of it.
JAMES COLQUHOUN: So then
you want-- you crave--
LISA GARR: Oh, so
you want more of it.
JAMES COLQUHOUN: You
start craving more.
I see, that sets up--
And you start
craving carbohydrates
because you're trying to fill
that gap of the nutrients.
It's this never-ending cycle.
-I see.
And then these-- other
than being a chemical,
I know that it's
been known to cause--
and I don't have the
statistics on this,
but you said it is
disruptive to the brain.
LAURENTINE TEN BOSCH:
Neurological problem,
migraines--
Formaldehyde build
up in the brain.
It mimics symptoms
in MS patients.
LISA GARR: So it's a very
highly toxic substance.
And no one stops you when
you buy it at the counter.
LISA GARR: That's right.
You don't have
anyone standing there
at the supermarket and say--
LISA GARR: It should say
the surgeon general warning.
---that it's super
dangerous for you.
That is has-- right,
that would be a good idea.
All right so what
we're going to do
is we're going to
take a quick break.
When we come back, we're
going to find out a little bit
about what foods we can eat.
We're going to talk
just a little bit more
because I want
people to understand
the importance of MSG in foods.
Because that's in-- the
film said 80% of foods--
LAURENTINE TEN BOSCH:
80% of processed foods.
LISA GARR: --of processed foods?
MSG?
And it's free-group
glutamate forms which
is under 50 different names.
Oh my goodness.
So you got to be--
So we need to be very aware
of what is in our food.
We need to know
how to read labels.
We need to know what are
all these crazy names.
LISA GARR: --what's in the
food, and the fact that caffeine
and aspartame together
is what causes
that chemicals explosion.
JAMES COLQUHOUN: --and
so addiction as well.
I never knew that together.
And addiction, as well.
OK, so we come back, we're
going to talk a little bit more
about MSG, what foods MSG is in.
And then we're going to
get into the whole idea
of what you should eat.
What we can eat, what's
readily available to us,
detoxification, juicing,
and all that great stuff.
So stay with us.
We'll be back about the
film, "Hungry for Change."
You're watching
Gaiam Inspirations.
I'm Lisa Garr.
We'll be right back.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Welcome back to
Gaiam Inspirations.
I'm Lisa Garr, and my
guests are James Colquhoun
and Laurentine ten Bosch.
And they are the documentary
filmmakers of the movie,
"Hungry for Change."
So let's talk a little bit
about why these food companies
put these items in foods.
--like aspartame and MSG.
What was really interesting
doing the research for "Hungry
for Change"-- and this was
brought to light really
by Jason Vale in
the documentary--
--was that in the '50s and '60s,
the cigarette companies were
knowingly adding and
increasing the nicotine
content of their cigarettes in
order to make them addictive.
Now they got called out by
this and had to take it out.
And there was a big
kerfluffle about it.
I didn't actually know that
until I watched the film is
that they were-- as
people were becoming more
accustomed to the
nicotine levels,
they were increasing it
to adapt to the addiction.
I did not know that.
It's a great way to keep
your customer coming back.
It's crazy, yes.
And so, that's what's happening
in the food industry right now.
There is an additive called
monosodium glutamate and E621.
And MSG is an
addictive additive.
Now they put this-- have
you ever wondered-- I'm sure
there's people out
there-- You go to a party,
or you open a package of chips,
and you just don't know why,
but you have to get that
last little [INAUDIBLE] out.
LAURENTINE TEN BOSCH: You're
just going back for more.
You don't know what it is.
You get overtaken by
this-- I need to have more.
Or you go to-- you have some
sort of salty soup or something
at some sort of restaurant.
And you come home and
you've got a dry mouth.
Or you've got a headache,
you can't go to sleep,
you don't know what's going on.
You've likely consumed MSG.
Now for most of us,
that's the symptomatology.
For others, it's severe
headaches, migraines.
And there's other
people I've met
that have to carry a necklace
saying, I'm sensitive to MSG.
If I go into a fit,
call this number.
It can be a very
serious food additive.
LAURENTINE TEN BOSCH:
But actually, we
thought when we first made
the film-- we thought, MSG,
isn't that what you find
mostly in Chinese restaurants
or when you go to
places where the food is
not really that kosher.
LISA GARR: And it will say
MSG, monosodium glutamate,
at the end.
Right, but we actually
found that it's
in 80% of all flavored
and processed foods.
So what that means is that
there's a lot of foods
out there on the shelves
that we didn't even
realize that have this in them.
So if it says the word
"natural flavors," is that MSG?
JAMES COLQUHOUN: --often
have MSG in them.
What's natural about that?
The tricky thing about MSG
is that MSG and this family
of free glutamates
can be called or known
under 50 different names.
So if you see
monosodium glutamate,
you know that it's MSG.
Or you see E621.
But if you see yeast extract or
a tortula extract, or these--
LISA GARR: Modified food starch?
Things like that.
There's so many of
these different names
where you look at them,
and you might not instantly
recognize them as MSG.
But given that they're in
that free glutamate category,
they have a similar
effect on the body.
And one of the most interesting
pieces of research around MSG--
which I found absolutely
phenomenal-- which we talk
about in the film-- was that if
researchers are doing research
on mice in order to
study the effectiveness
of obesity medication or
weight loss approaches,
they have to first
make the mouse fat.
Or the mice fat.
Now how they do that
is they feed them MSG.
LAURENTINE TEN BOSCH:
That is the protocol.
That's what they start with.
In order to make them fat.
And from there, they
start doing the testing.
So if they're making mice
fat by feeding them MSG--
and this has become such a huge
part of our modern processed
food landscape--
it's little wonder
that we're suffering from
such large rates of obesity.
Now if anybody's listening
to this, just Google it.
We say this in the film,
MSG, obesity-induced mice.
And you see it.
The research papers,
the fat mice,
and it's-- we're consuming this.
So it's a really interesting--
So these food companies
have taken this information,
and they've seen
that this works.
This works.
People will really-- they will
love-- this food will be yummy.
People will buy
more of this food.
LISA GARR: --because
the mice eat it.
The mice eat it, and it's
an addictive component.
And it's of strong
flavor, which we--
We actually have a
still here of the photo
of some of the foods
that you do find MSG in.
And some of these things
I didn't even suspect.
Like protein shakes, ketchup--
LAURENTINE TEN BOSCH:
--salad dressings.
---salad dressings,
the drinkable yogurts--
JAMES COLQUHOUN:
--drinkable, instant noodles.
Instant noodles, in
particular, was a big one.
Like the flavoring enhancers and
a lot of the pre-made sauces.
LISA GARR: So is
it a preservative?
JAMES COLQUHOUN: It's
not a preservative.
It's a flavor enhancer.
So it's called a
flavor enhancer,
but I'd rather call it an
addiction weight-gain additive.
Really, that's what
it should be called.
Yes.
There's got to be
a way to say that.
Many-- MSG-- We could
think about that one.
But we're really not
trying to put people down.
We're really just exposing
them to this information.
Because a lot of people--
if I tell someone
they can't eat
those chips, they're
really upset because they love
those chips They've become
familiar with those
chips, and they've become
buddy-buddy with those chips.
But really, it's just about
exposing this information.
And once they start
realizing what's
really going on behind
the scenes, they'll shift.
LISA GARR: No, I can see how
that could be comfort food.
I love those chips.
That's my salty, crunchy,
carbohydrate, study food.
And it becomes comfort
food, and I can see why.
It tastes good,
it feels good, it
takes me back to a good memory.
Absolutely.
So let's talk about what we can
eat, and what is good for us.
When I look at
ingredients, and I
see things that I don't
recognize as food,
it really makes me wonder.
What is modified food starch?
What is corn whatever?
I think that this
is-- a lot of people
see it as a daunting
task to have to go
and redo their whole diet.
And it shouldn't be.
And one of the main
premises we talk about
in "Hungry for
Change" is to really
counteract-- these diets don't
work-- research that exists.
These diets don't work.
So to really counteract
that, the best
way and the best
approach you can take
is this concept of adding.
Now it's a really great
approach because all you do
is you start to add more foods--
which we'll talk about now--
more foods which are natural
and whole, and in a form
that our body is familiar with
digesting and assimilating
the nutrients from.
And if we just focus on
adding one of them a day,
or two a day, and then you
start to build from there.
And it's not about
taking anything out.
So you can keep
your chips, Lisa.
And everybody out there can
keep their little comfort foods.
But the concept is to just
add some of these food
groups, which we'll talk about.
And really, when we're
talking about what to add,
it's really acknowledging
that our bodies have been
biologically adapted
over millennium to deal
with certain types of foods.
Now the introduction of
processed foods in the form
that we're talking about
today has only really happened
in the last 50 to 100 years.
And that's a very short period
of time in the evolution
of our bodies on this planet.
LISA GARR: But it's no
wonder why we are getting
sicker and heavier
and more toxic
because of the
introduction of these foods
in the last 50 to 100 years.
And it makes perfect
sense why our children
are being born sicker.
It makes perfect sense.
So I think the
first step would be,
though, to start to detoxify
from some of these foods.
Would that be a good first--
JAMES COLQUHOUN:
That's right, and we
talk about detoxification
in the film as well.
And detoxification is a
great way to cleanse the body
and clear it out.
But again, the
focus should always
be kept on adding
because that really
clears the mental neuroses
around our relationship
with food.
Because it is an emotional
relationship we have with food.
We always say, start
adding a green juice,
even if it's just a
green juice a day.
Or just a big salad before you
have your lunch or your dinner.
Just have a really beautiful,
big, leafy, green salad.
So the introduction of the green
and the chlorophyll-rich foods
help to alkalize the body.
So soon--
LISA GARR: That helps.
--the biochemistry will
change, and you crave
less of these toxic foods.
Well, there's a
clip in the film
that I thought was
really important to show
people about detoxification.
So that you can really
start to understand
the importance of it, let's
take a look at that clip now.
Probably the best thing a
person can do in the beginning
is clean themselves out and get
on a detoxification program.
Foods that detoxify the body--
some are really obvious,
and some are not.
Some the more obvious
ones are green vegetables,
chlorophyll-rich foods.
In hospitals chlorophyll
is used, or was used,
as an internal deodorant for
people who had a lot of body
hard.
Chlorophyll is a great way
to clean our bodies out.
So those are, of course,
all of our well-grown,
heirloom, organic vegetables.
These are fantastic for
cleaning our bodies out.
There's some less
obvious stuff as well,
though, like
gelatinous plant foods.
For instance, things like
chia seeds, or aloe vera,
or the seaweeds--
these foods that
have a gel that they
secrete when they get wet--
And what those do,
those gels move
through our intestinal tract.
If we eat something
like chia seeds-
if we can blend that
into a drink some way,
or something like that--
and get it into our bodies,
these gelatinous fibers move
through intestinal track,
absorbing things, binding
them, and passing them through.
Particularly, what they do is
they absorb the bile salts that
are released by the liver, bind
those up, and pass those out
with all the fat-soluble
toxins the liver's
trying to get rid of.
If we don't have these
gelatinous fibers,
we tend to reabsorb
a lot of that.
So the liver tries to get rid of
something, puts it in the bile,
dumps it into the
small intestine,
hoping that it eventually
gets out of us.
But it gets reabsorbed.
So gelatinous
fibers can really do
a lot to clean out the liver.
I want to mention two
other ingredients that are
especially useful for detox.
That is parsley and cilantro.
Now parsley cleanses
your entire blood supply,
and it also gives
you fresh breath.
Parsley has so much chlorophyll
that it just cleanses you
whole system.
And cilantro binds
with heavy metals.
A lot of people are
getting mercury, especially
through the fish
that they're eating
or through their
dental fillings.
And if you eat cilantro,
it can bind with that
and remove it from your system
so that the mercury doesn't get
lodged in your body's cells.
And mercury, as you
know, is very toxic.
It's a neurotoxin.
You don't want that anywhere
in your brain cells, right?
But cleansing our bodies
is not complicated.
It's not difficult. It's
just going to require
high-quality, green plant food.
It's going to require
gelatinous fibers.
It's going to
require good water.
It's going to mean
needing good air.
getting sunlight.
And our body wants
to cleanse itself.
It's looking to cleanse itself.
It knows how to cleanse itself.
You don't even have
to do very much.
Just input gentle foods.
Be out in nature.
Your body will cleanse
itself very easily.
And when the weight
starts coming off,
people become so excited
they don't want to stop.
And then eventually, starting
to add more and more foods back
in from healthy sources
that look like the foods
they used to eat but
are actually more
satisfying and more nutritive.
And they'll find that they can
live a life of not just being
fit and trim, but actually
feeling how they've always
wanted to feel in a
body that works properly
and that stays healthy forever.
OK, so this is very important.
We're talking about
solutions here,
and this is the best part.
We've gotten through the
things that are toxic
and a lot of
awareness about that.
But let's talk about what to do.
What do you do?
What are you-- how do you eat?
Oh, wow.
Well, let's start-- let's
break it down with the juicing.
Juicing is a really
great way for people to,
like we said, adding in juices
is a great way to start.
So we have a green
juice in the morning.
And that consists of
four things, kale,
celery, cucumber, and apples.
And it's quite easy to get
in the farmer's market.
They have these beautiful,
organic veggies.
So if you pick that
up in the weekend,
and then in the morning you
just have it in the crisper.
And you're ready to go.
And you throw it
through the juicer,
and it's a very
short thing to do.
So it takes a couple
of minutes, and then--
Now do you use the
pulp from the juice?
Do you do a Vitamix?
Do you just do the juice?
There's a couple of
different opinions.
A lot of the things to touch
on that-- people always say,
what juicer do I need, or
what juicer do I have to get.
And we always say, the
best juicer you've got
is the one you've got.
And if you don't have a juicer--
And if you don't have
a juicer, get one.
And if you don't
want to get a juicer,
there's so many juice
bars these days.
You can quickly find
one close to your house,
I'm sure, for most people.
And if not, and
you've got a blender,
just put that all in the
blender and blend it up.
Basically, what we're
encouraging people to do
is to get more greens
into their life.
And juicing is really powerful
because when you drink it,
it goes straight into
your blood stream.
So what's the
difference between that
and eating a salad?
No, it's nothing
much difference.
It's getting the nutrients.
The juice is really
a 15 minute--
I call it the 15 minute
express nutrient cleanse.
So really, it goes into
your system straightaway,
and 15 minutes later you have
that in your blood system.
Whereas a salad
has to be digested,
and it will still get there.
But it's just less quick.
The juicing for me is almost
like a blood transfusion.
You can feel the vitamins and
nutrients going into the body.
I experience that sometimes.
If I'll go and exercise
and have a juice,
I can actually feel in my legs.
It's interesting.
Just because I
think you really do
break down the hull-- as they
were showing in the video
there-- of the food.
And you get to the
actual nutrients.
That's right.
Essentially, our
body is a juicer.
We are a juice machine.
Think about it.
Our bod takes in food,
it crunches it all down
in our mouth, and
then with the saliva,
it goes through our
digestive tract.
Essentially, it has to
be liquefied in order
for the nutrients to
go through the villi
in the small intestine, in
the gut, into the bloodstream.
And then from when they're
in the bloodstream,
they go through-- so
juicing is just basically
taking one of those
steps out and consuming
the vegetable juice.
Now it's so powerful
because of how quickly
it delivers those nutrients.
And if you've got a
beaten-up digestion system,
or if you've got a gut
that's not working too well--
you haven't had too many
probiotic rich foods.
So your digestion
is not 100%, then
juicing is powerful because
it just bypasses all that
and goes straight
into the blood stream.
Does it have in the beginning
cause a detoxification
effect at all in the body?
It sure does.
A lot of people, if they're not
used to the juicing, the juices
and especially the
green juices, will
allow things to start moving.
And a lot of people need that.
We say, start with a glass of
water and then have the juice.
Things will start moving.
Do you add water to your juice?
No, we want to be
hydrated, as well.
Juicing and hydration
go hand in hand.
But really, what
we're talking about
is really trying to find those
things that people can add in.
And the most healthy
things people can add
in-- and the
juicing, and salads,
and green foods,
and plant foods--
not seeds-- vegetables--
You can put those in?
---seaweeds, sprouts.
Add it all in.
Well, not-- into your
diet is what I'm saying.
The concept of adding.
So add that juice once per day,
or add a great, green smoothie
once a day, or add a
salad with your lunch,
or add a salad
before your dinner.
I can already hear
people's excuses.
Oh, I don't like
to use my juicer.
I don't know how to clean
it, it takes a lot of time,
I'm too busy.
But it's really about
breaking it down for ourselves
and making it easy and
simple, and being prepared.
If you have all those
veggies there in the weekend,
they you'll know you will
use them during the week.
That's a good idea.
Go to a farmers' market.
Let's take a look at
the clip from the film,
"Hungry for Change,"
about juicing.
So take some notes.
Juicing is important
for two main reasons.
People often say, well,
why don't we just eat it.
That's a good
question, first of all.
Why don't we just eat it?
We don't.
That's the first
thing to address.
The point is that
most people don't
consume enough raw
fruits and vegetables
and spectrum of colors.
So that's number one.
Secondly, most
people are overfed,
and they're undernourished.
And so their digestive system is
beaten up over years and years
of trying to digest,
extract the nutrients,
and dispose of the waste
of the wrong kind of foods.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Juicing is important as well,
because it's easy to absorb.
It's the ultimate fast food.
People say, I want
a fast food diet.
Get juicing.
Because if you think the average
dinner will take anything
from 4 to 16 hours to leave
the stomach-- and the body
try and digest it--
freshly extracted juice
is the 15 minute, nutrient
express to health.
That's what it is.
It goes into your stomach plus
15 minutes into your cells.
And also, let's be
fair, you will consume
far more raw,
fresh, vegetables--
the kind of vegetables you
wouldn't ordinarily eat.
Juice mixed with a
little bit of apple,
a little bit of
pineapple, a bit of lime--
you can jazz up some of these
juices so they taste divine.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So can you imagine?
You remove refined sugars,
refined fats, junky-type foods,
all the wheat, the
breads, the man-made foods
going into your body.
And all of a sudden,
overnight you
replace it with
high-water content.
That's what it is.
Pure high-water content,
organic-rich mineral,
vitamin-rich fuel, going into
every single cell of your body
in the most easy to
digest and absorb form.
And with a spectrum of
colors, with everything
the body requires.
What do you think the
body's going to do?
It's not going to
reject this at all.
It's going to look and
say, now I'm on board.
Now you're good to me,
let me shine for you.
OK, so if you were to
say that the number one
thing that people should
start with if they're
realizing all this for the first
time, what would you say it is?
I would say juicing.
And it's easy, right?
Just for the quickest--
we're all addicted
to instant gratification.
We want outcomes.
That's why we have
drive-through burgers.
That's why we have a
headache pills that
promise five minute results.
Because we want
instant gratification.
Now if you want instant
gratification in the good way,
in a way that's going
to support your body,
then start with a green juice.
If you have a green
juice once a day,
and don't change
anything else, you will
already see dramatic results.
And from there, build.
Start adding more great
foods, and you'll learn more.
You watch the film, see
other films, read books,
check out the
"Hungry for Change"
books, start getting
some recipes.
And you'll just start to ease
your way into it in baby steps,
and before you know it, you'll
be a gastronaut in no time.
A what?
A gastronaut.
Or somebody who's really great.
I just want to say as well, in
the "Hungry for Change" book,
we actually have 100 recipes.
The best juices, the best
smoothies, the best salads,
soups, really quick
and simple easy
ideas you can throw
together and make it very
simple and breaking it down.
We're going to actually show
one of the recipes in just
a minute, but I want to ask
you, what are some tips that you
have, so for the
advanced juicer-- what
eating for beauty--
actually you don't even
need to be advanced for this.
What types of foods can you
need for better eyesight?
Well, better eyesight--
carrots, the number one thing.
Carrots are shown to increase
blood circulation to your eyes
within 20 minutes.
Very high in vitamin A.
So there's also this law
of signatures in foods.
And I'm not sure if
you're aware of this,
but if you look
at foods, and you
look at the shape and the
construction of the food--
if you cut a carrot down
this way, across the carrot,
you'll see that it
looks like an eye.
If you look at broccoli,
it looks like the lungs.
If you look at a tomato, it's
got four chambers like a heart.
So these foods-- actually these
signatures in foods-- actually
have a relationship
with our body.
So that's one way of looking at
it which is for visual people.
But there's so many foods
that can affect our beauty.
Skin, you're looking
at silica, arugula,
you're looking also at
radishes, endives, olives
and olive oil, cucumbers--
---probiotic foods.
Foods that have been cultured
so they have all the probiotics
that help us to digest
and help with the gut
flora that are usually in
disrepair for a lot of people.
What types of
foods have those--
Sauerkraut.
Cultured vegetables like
kimchi and sauerkraut.
-Kefir?
-Also, kefir, yes.
Exactly.
And kombucha and yogurts.
So really helping to recolonize
the digestive system--
And when you do that,
the effectiveness
of the way that your
body assimilates
and digests all the
nutrients from the foods
increases dramatically.
And as you get more nutrients,
your nourishing your body.
A friend of mine was asking
this morning about this.
She was wondering,
should she get a flu
shot for her child, or not.
And she started to
think along the lines
of, well, I don't really know.
The nasal spray
flu shot-- there's
a controversy of whether
or not that crosses
the blood brain barrier or not.
And what type of advice
would you give her?
I would say to stick
to natural things
just so your body
can recognize them.
In the flu shot there's
a lot of items in there
that our body does not
deal with very well,
and it doesn't recognize.
So I'd say, stick with things
that we know that our body
knows how to deal with.
Even when I start
feeling a little bit ill,
I go for things that
are high in vitamin C.
So chlorophyll-rich foods,
high in vitamin C foods,
lots of water, mega doses
of vitamin C, even just
the crystals, and then zinc.
Yeah, absolutely.
And I think for a lot of people,
the best flu shot you can get
is a green juice.
Because the more that you can
bolster your own immunity,
the more that you can create
an environment in your body
where you are immune.
Because of the strength
of your immune system,
then you're in a powerful state.
I've got to ask
you about protein.
How do you get protein
into your diet?
I think protein
is available in so
many different types of foods.
We're just led to
believe that it
only comes from animal sources.
Yes, there are great sources
of animal protein as well.
Clean, wild-caught
fish, certain types
of wild or grass-fed
animals for people who
chose to eat animal products.
But also in the
vegetarian realm,
there's so many places you
can get great proteins.
Hemp seeds are a
fantastic example.
Even protein concentrates
from pea or soy.
So really making sure that
you look for the best quality.
Because whenever you're
eating seeds or nuts,
they're fatty foods because
they have high fat content.
And fats tend to
accumulate toxins,
so you want to make sure
they're as organic as possible.
I see.
Now can you add a protein
powder to the green juice?
Absolutely.
You can add it to
a green smoothie.
We usually add a
tablespoon of hemp powder.
Hemp powder.
Hemp's one of my favorites
because it has the amino acids.
It has the building blocks
for the protein in the body.
I also, from David Wolfe,
learned about the hemp seed
and about-- He has a
brown rice protein powder.
JAMES COLQUHOUN:
Protein, exactly.
There are so many available.
There's whey protein that
are goat's milk protein.
Yeah, absolutely.
And you can get also now whey
concentrate and grass fed whey,
raw whey concentrate.
So you can get higher
quality whey products now.
So really, when we're talking
about foods in this section
here, it's about being--
one of my friend's term
is actually called-- she's
a fantastic nutritionist.
And she calls it
a "qualitarian."
And it's really about not
being a vegetarian or a vegan.
LISA GARR: Oh, interesting.
It's more about quality.
So your primary
concern as a filter
when you go shopping is not,
I can't have this, or has that
got animal products.
It's more, what is the
best quality product
I can be giving my body.
And if you choose to be more on
the vegetarian plant base side,
that's great.
Or if you choose to have
some animal products,
that's great, too.
But make sure the
quality is high.
LAURENTINE TEN BOSCH: So
what are we looking for?
So a lot of people ask, well,
what types of meat are OK,
or what types of dairy are OK.
We usually say, the grass fed.
So that means the cows have
been raised on pastures
rather than locked up in cages.
And they're humanely treated.
So there's a lot now.
Especially in a lot
of supermarkets,
you can see a lot of
labeling is happening.
It's fantastic.
You know what you're buying.
Yes that's good.
So when you walk
into a supermarket,
what's the first
section that you go to?
Or do you just go
to farmers markets?
LAURENTINE TEN BOSCH: That's
a good question, Lisa.
Well, we go to
supermarkets, too.
I want practicality, here.
We usually go
around the outside.
The perimeter is where
we shop because that's
the most freshest.
And you know that those
people-- they come in and go,
and it's the produce section.
We usually steer clear
of the middle part,
and that's got most
of the processed foods
that our body
doesn't really know
how to deal with and recognize.
I was going to say
before, as well,
that a lot of the processed
foods and the E numbers-- when
we have a lot of
those foods, our body
doesn't know what to do with it.
So what does it do?
It stores it as fat
because it doesn't know.
It will just be like,
we'll deal with that later.
And I'm a big proponent
of child's lunch boxes.
Please put color
in the lunch box.
JAMES COLQUHOUN: Eat a rainbow.
It is challenging,
though, because you
want to put stuff in there
that's going to last all day.
You don't know if the
box is going to sit
outside or in a backpack.
And I always want to put
green food in that lunch box.
You got to stay
committed to it, moms.
You got to do that.
Actually, we have a recipe
that I want to show you.
We have just a picture
here of the recipe.
You can write this down.
You can start here
with your juicing.
You can take a look
at what's in it.
It's just celery,
cucumber, as you mentioned,
a few kale leaves.
Those are leafy.
They last for a long time.
Keep going.
JAMES COLQUHOUN: And there's
some parsley in there, which
we talk about as really
powerful for detoxifying
the bloodstream.
Then a lemon or lime.
I like to leave a little
bit of peel on there.
So take the ends off, maybe
just a little bit off the sides.
But leave a little
bit of the peel
because it just
adds a nice tang.
I don't know if you
notice the flavor.
Try it out.
It's really nice.
LISA GARR: Interesting.
And very cleansing, too.
JAMES COLQUHOUN: And
a lot of the nutrients
are in the pith, the
white substance there.
LISA GARR: And a lot
of vitamins there, too.
That's good.
JAMES COLQUHOUN: Absolutely.
So then, for most people--
I can have it like that--
but for most people, they want
a little bit of sweetness.
And the pear is really
great because it's
a low-glycemic
sweetener, fruit sugar.
And/or an apple like a
green apple is really great.
So that alone, if you
lay that out in a bowl,
you wouldn't normally go
and attack that and eat it,
would you?
You wouldn't normally do that.
But if you juice it, you can
get all those nutrients right
into your bloodstream.
That's why it's so powerful.
LISA GARR: That
makes perfect sense.
OK, so now where do we
find out about the film?
People could show it
in their classrooms,
their work environments.
We encourage free screenings
all around the world.
We encourage groups to do that.
You can find out about
"Hungry for Change."
Filmmakers actually charge
for their films to be screened.
So we just said, no, we
want people to see this.
We want it to be available.
And people all over the
world are screening it.
And it's in schools, and
in community centers,
and a lot of wellness
centers, actually, as well.
And chiropractors, they're
playing it in waiting rooms.
LISA GARR: Good, yeah.
A lot of really, really
great information in there.
And the website,
hungryforchange.com?
JAMES COLQUHOUN: Dot TV.
Yeah, hungryforchange.tv,
and foodmatters.tv.
And it's also going
to be on Gaiam TV,
so it's definitely going to be
on there for everyone as well.
So thank you so much.
You are just the
picture of health.
You have so much
great information.
It's all embedded into the DVDs
as well, and the book as well.
So you're really doing
a lot to help people
and to help make a change.
I appreciate it.
JAMES COLQUHOUN: Thank
you so much, Lisa.
LAURENTINE TEN BOSCH:
Thank you, Lisa.
We're on the same page.
Well, it's great to
have you guys here.
And so, what's next?
You're going to
make another one?
We would love to
make another film.
Laurentine hates it when
I talk about other films.
She's like, not yet, we need
to get this one out there.
We will, of course.
We want to work on about
two or three other projects.
And this is like number
10 in iTunes, you said?
Yeah, it's been really
successful on iTunes.
It's coming on Netflix
soon, and obviously it'll
be on Gaiam TV, gaiamtv.com.
LISA GARR: There's
a lot out there,
so for you to be able to make
a mark with this type of film,
it really makes
a big difference.
Thank you both so much
for joining us today.
LAURENTINE TEN BOSCH:
Thank you so much.
And thank you so much.
If you want to watch a
replay of my interview
about "Hungry for
Change," the documentary--
If you want to share
it with friends,
then you can go to gaiamtv.com.
And a lot more of
thought-provoking interviews
are there for you, as well.
Inspirational films, so
much more at gaiamtv.com.
So I invite you to
go today, and thank
you so much for joining me.
Until next time, I invite
you to stay inspired.
[MUSIC PLAYING]